Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
Interviewee Lucy Price.
Location of the interview is the Swicker office in Market House.
Today's date is the 28th of September 2015.
Before we start Lucy, could you be kind enough to spell your name in full please?
Lucy Price.
Thank you very much. So Lucy, how did you become involved with Cardiff Carnival?
I became involved with Cardiff Carnival through the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama.
So I was doing my Masters in Arts Management there and we had to do a professional placement and I chose to go with Swicker Carnival.
So I know for a fact that you were very helpful helping us do research into various income streams and crowdfunding.
But as part of your time with Gloria Swicker, of course, you took part on an extensive and immersive basis at the carnival camp.
What was that like as an experience?
It was absolutely brilliant. It was something I didn't expect at all.
Bearing in mind that we've been trained on very dry, very management style stuff to then go and get stuck in was really great.
Stuck on as well actually.
The amount of glue I went through, I'm not surprised.
It was amazing. I always liked arts and design and stuff.
But to actually get there, to go and get involved with everyone and to get to make my own costume was amazing.
Tell us a bit more about your costume because what can I say?
It was a beautiful costume, well made.
Where did the idea come from and how did you make it?
The idea came from Adrian.
Adrian, lead designer, designed the basic shape for me because he had something in his mind and then set me to it.
So it was a main fan and then with three fans at the back.
It was all in shades of yellow and gold and black with a massive big yellow feather headdress.
It was great. It took me pretty much the length of the whole camp to make it.
I took it all the way from the very beginning through making the shape of a fibreglass pole and attaching it to the backpack
and doing all the fabric and the design and then gluing on infinite amounts of feathers and sequins and varying forms of glitter.
How are your glue gun burns?
They're just about healed. I did lose a pair of jeans though.
Were you in them at the time?
No, I spotted them later. I was like, oh my leg's sparkling.
And they said, oh wait, no, that's still glue from glitter everywhere.
My flat was permanently glittery for the whole time. I think I worked at Twicker.
Of course, the camp aspires to be and is a genuinely sort of happy place.
What would you describe, I suppose on one level, you were in the inner sanctum with the seamstress and those who know how to make big things.
In the even larger room next to you were the community groups working away.
Give us a clue as to what did it feel like to be there? What was the ambience like? What was the noise like? What were the noise levels like?
Art was brilliant. Everyone was just so excited about it all the time. Everyone was so happy to be there and so keen to be involved.
There was such a range of people, I think.
I always loved the friendly rivalry between different costumes and who had the most feathers and the sequins and the glitter and who looked more fabulous.
It was just a great atmosphere. Everyone wanted to be so colourful and so flamboyant and so fun. It was just sort of buzzing the whole time.
Life-affirming?
Oh, definitely, yeah.
Sounds good. Of course, the great day dawned and a bit like today, it was a beautiful, beautiful sunny day.
You put on this amazing creation.
I did.
How windy was the day? What were the ups and downs? What challenges did you face, Lucy?
What challenges did you face?
Parading this large-scale backpack costume through the city centre.
Well, small spaces were always an issue for me. Any height restrictions were a bit of a...
No, it was actually amazing. I did wake up the morning of Carnival and go, oh dear God, what have I signed up for?
But then I was like, no, actually, the minute I got that costume on and I got out that door, it was so much fun.
And yeah, it was a bit windy. I think coming round by the Goody Hoo was a battle against the elements.
I nearly went sideways at one point because I basically had a massive wind sail.
Last scene, heading in the Barry direction, Lucy Price.
Yeah, I also got stuck on a lamppost at one point. That was a highlight. That's how big the costume was.
Excellent.
But no, it was...
How did you get yourself un-extricated from a lamppost?
Luckily, some person by helped me out.
Petch was there as well. Petch was in a costume like mine. She managed to help me out.
But yeah, there was a moment when I was just like, oh no, try and dance it off.
But yeah, it was awesome.
And it was, yeah, like I said, I was a bit nervous to start with.
Then it was kind of, I think, once you get into the spirit of it and that sort of energy that goes round
and everyone's sort of, especially when everyone's lined up ready to go before the Carnival starts, that's just...
That's a feverish expectation about the place, isn't it?
It's been an out-of-body experience.
And the great Cardiff public, how did they react to you?
Oh, it was lovely. Everyone was so excited to see everyone and people out in the world.
Were people asking you to stop and post photographs?
Yeah, yeah.
That sounds nice.
A lot of pictures. A lot of pictures. I had to put my best cheesy grin on.
Excellent.
Try not to blink too much, which I always do.
But yeah, no, it was brilliant. It was lovely. The atmosphere was just, everyone was so...
Everyone in the crowd was just so happy and so joyous. It was nice.
So Carnival, very positive experience. If you had to sum it up in a few words...
Oh, don't do this to me.
Okay, if you didn't have to sum it up in a few words...
I had a paragraph when I said...
Carnival was just amazing. It was just so sort of immersive and so like...
Just so much joy and fun and happiness I think it brings.
That amount of colour and glitter in anyone's life is...
It's got to be a good thing.
Yeah, it's got to be. I had an amazing time when I was here.
Bless you. Well, thank you for all your contribution, not only in Carnival, but to the company as a whole.
I hereby declare that you, Lucy Price, are a Carnival hero. Thank you very much.
Yay, thank you.
You've now entered history.